---
title: "Part 1: Asseess Algorithm Risk"
bg: '#63BD2F'
color: white
---

### Overview
Managing algorithms requires an understanding of the risks to all parties involved. There are four overarching sets of risks that must be evaluated when using algorithms:

1. Impact examines the algorithm in terms of the effects it will have on people and property.
2. Appropriate Use inspects the relationship between the data being used in the algorithm and the purpose for which the data was collected and perceptions of the anticipated use.
3. Accountability surfaces how much involvement people have in the ongoing use of the algorithm, including whether automated decisions can be clearly explained to anyone.
4. Bias explores the underlying influence of the data and the people who helped build the algorithm.

In this part of the toolkit, you will evaluate each of these risks through a series of steps. Each step explores an individual factor. These factors are then rolled up to help you provide stakeholders with a high-level understanding of risk. The risk levels (and in some cases, individual factors) help to determine your mitigation plan (Toolkit Part 2) - how you will collaborate with your community of stakeholders to manage these risks.

-------------------------

## Part 1: Assess Algorithm Risk

### Step 1: Understand and assess impact

Impact is a function of four dimensions:

1. **Type.** This is used to classify the impact and defines the nature of the impact. For example, an algorithm designed to detect anomalies in genetic code would fall under “life / safety.”
2. **Degree.** This is the level of the impact from negligible to major. For example, Deciding the bail of an incarcerated person would be considered major.
3. **Scale.** This is how many people, places, or things are affected. For example, 
4. **Direction.** This is whether the impact is positive or negative. Most algorithms will have both positive and negative impacts. For example: An algorithm meant to connect persons experiencing homelessness to affordable housing positively affects those selected for housing, but negatively impacts those excluded.

The steps below walk you through:

* Identifying who or what will be impacted and
* An analysis of impact along the four dimensions of type, degree, scale and direction.

You may find that these steps are iterative. *For example, when you are exploring the scale of impact you may realize that you forgot about a potential impact group. In Appendix C. we provide a worksheet that you can use to iteratively conduct this analysis.*

