---
title: "Why"
bg: blue
color: white
fa-icon: check-square-o
---

#### Boston Devops Slack Community Code of Conduct 

# Purpose

Boston DevOps values the input, knowledge, experiences, and involvement of individuals and organizations that comprise Boston’s DevOps community. A primary goal of Boston DevOps (also known as BDO) is to be inclusive to the largest number of contributors, with the most varied and diverse backgrounds possible. As such, we are committed to providing a friendly, safe, and welcoming environment for all, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, ability, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and religion (or lack thereof).
This code of conduct outlines our expectations for all those who participate in our community, as well as the consequences for unacceptable behavior. Misconduct and unacceptable behavior or conduct not in keeping with the spirit and intent of the Boston DevOps Citizens Code of Conduct will be subject to sanctions by the community leaders as appropriate. All sanctions will be governed through principles and procedures characteristic of Natural Justice. 
We invite all those who participate in Boston DevOps Meetup to help us create safe and positive experiences for everyone. To that end, we will treat each other with respect and dignity – where everyone can expect an environment that is free of harassment, bullying, and discrimination.
Harassment, bullying and discrimination take many forms, including (See Appendix A – Supporting Definitions)
- Unwelcome remarks, gestures or physical contact
- Display or circulation of offensive, derogatory or sexually explicit pictures or other materials, including by email and on the Internet
- Offensive or derogatory jokes or comments (explicit or by innuendo)
- Verbal or physical abuse and threats

